Improve the API docs, module MD, and package MD (#157)
ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-mysql: mysql-ballerina/Module.md

> ## Module Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Overview
```

Author: changed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-mysql/pull/157/commits/98bb69547c284bf2186bc2a14cbb622cd2fc34ad

The `dbClient3` uses the named params to pass the attributes since it is skipping some params in the constructor.
Further [mysql:Options](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/mysql/records/Options)
is passed to configure the SSL and connection timeout in the MySQL client.

Similarly, the `dbClient4` uses the named params and it provides an unshared connection pool in the type of
[sql:ConnectionPool](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/sql/records/ConnectionPool)
to be used within the client.
For more details about connection pooling, see the [SQL Module](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/sql).

```ballerina
mysql:Client|sql:Error dbClient1 = new ();
mysql:Client|sql:Error dbClient2 = new ("localhost", "rootUser", "rooPass", 
                              "information_schema", 3306);
                              
mysql:Options mysqlOptions = {
  ssl: {
    mode: mysql:SSL_PREFERRED
  },
  connectTimeout: 10
};
mysql:Client|sql:Error dbClient3 = new (user = "rootUser", password = "rootPass",
                              options = mysqlOptions);
mysql:Client|sql:Error dbClient4 = new (user = "rootUser", password = "rootPass",

>                               connectionPool = {maxOpenConnections: 5});

Reviewer: Shall we move these code snippets to align with the description? So don't need to name differently. WDYT?

Author: This is resolved in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-mysql/pull/157/commits/ca750df90affd7d7c591c04ff542c9f307a82f8b

```

#### Using SSL

> In order to connect the MySQL database using SSL connection, you must add SSL configurations to `mysql:Options` when crating the `dbClient`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To connect the MySQL database using an SSL connection, you must add SSL configurations to `mysql:Options` when creating the `dbClient`.
```

Author: corrected in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-mysql/pull/157/commits/98bb69547c284bf2186bc2a14cbb622cd2fc34ad

for key and cert files, you must provide the files in .p12 format.

```ballerina
string clientStorePath = "/path/to/keystore.p12";
string turstStorePath = "/path/to/truststore.p12";

mysql:Options mysqlOptions = {
  ssl: {
    mode: mysql:SSL_PREFERRED,
    key: {
        path: clientStorePath,
        password: "password"
    },
    cert: {
        path: turstStorePath,
        password: "password"
    }
  }
};
```

You can find more details about each property in the
[mysql:Client](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/mysql/clients/Client) constructor.

The [mysql:Client](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/mysql/clients/Client) references
[sql:Client](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/sql/abstractObjects/Client) and all the operations
defined by the `sql:Client` will be supported by the `mysql:Client` as well.

For more information on all the operations supported by the `mysql:Client`, which include the below, see the [SQL Module](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/sql).

1. Connection Pooling
2. Querying data
3. Inserting data
4. Updating data
5. Deleting data
6. Batch insert and update data
7. Execute stored procedures

> 8. Closing client

Reviewer: Shall we add small explanations with code snippets

Author: this is resolved in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-mysql/pull/157/commits/ca750df90affd7d7c591c04ff542c9f307a82f8b

[sql:ConnectionPool](https://docs.central.ballerina.io/ballerina/sql/latest/records/ConnectionPool)
to be used within the client.
For more details about connection pooling, see the [`sql` Module](https://docs.central.ballerina.io/ballerina/sql/latest).

```ballerina
mysql:Client|sql:Error dbClient = new (user = "rootUser", password = "rootPass",
                              connectionPool = {maxOpenConnections: 5});
```

#### Using SSL
To connect the MySQL database using an SSL connection, you must add the SSL configurations to the `mysql:Options` when creating the `dbClient`.
For the SSL Mode, you can select one of the modes: `mysql:SSL_PREFERRED`, `mysql:SSL_REQUIRED`, `mysql:SSL_VERIFY_CA`, or `mysql:SSL_VERIFY_IDENTITY` according to the requirement.
For the key and cert files, you must provide the files in the `.p12` format.

```ballerina
string clientStorePath = "/path/to/keystore.p12";
string turstStorePath = "/path/to/truststore.p12";

mysql:Options mysqlOptions = {
  ssl: {
    mode: mysql:SSL_PREFERRED,
    key: {
        path: clientStorePath,
        password: "password"
    },
    cert: {
        path: turstStorePath,
        password: "password"
    }
  }
};
```

> #### Connection Pool Handling

Reviewer 3: This same as SQL, shall we point to SQL API docs?

Author: According to @daneshk 's input, He said that it is better to add samples rather than pointing SQL API docs and duplication of samples are ok.

Reviewer 3: Ack

#### Creating a Client
This example shows the different ways of creating the `mysql:Client`.

The client can be created with an empty constructor and hence, the client will be initialized with the default properties.

```ballerina
mysql:Client|sql:Error dbClient = new ();
```

The `dbClient` receives the host, username, and password. Since the properties are passed in the same order as it is defined
in the `jdbc:Client`, you can pass it without named params.

```ballerina
mysql:Client|sql:Error dbClient = new ("localhost", "rootUser", "rooPass", 
                              "information_schema", 3306);
```

The `dbClient` uses the named params to pass the attributes since it is skipping some params in the constructor.
Further [mysql:Options](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/mysql/records/Options)
is passed to configure the SSL and connection timeout in the MySQL client.

```ballerina
mysql:Options mysqlOptions = {
  ssl: {
    mode: mysql:SSL_PREFERRED
  },
  connectTimeout: 10
};
mysql:Client|sql:Error dbClient = new (user = "rootUser", password = "rootPass",
                              options = mysqlOptions);
```

> Similarly, the `dbClient` uses the named params, and it provides an unshared connection pool in the type of

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Similarly, the `dbClient` uses the named params and it provides an unshared connection pool of the type of
```

[sql:ConnectionPool](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/sql/records/ConnectionPool)
to be used within the client.
For more details about connection pooling, see the [SQL Module](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/sql).

```ballerina
mysql:Client|sql:Error dbClient = new (user = "rootUser", password = "rootPass",
                              connectionPool = {maxOpenConnections: 5});
```

#### Using SSL

> To connect the MySQL database using an SSL connection, you must add SSL configurations to `mysql:Options` when creating the `dbClient`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To connect the MySQL database using an SSL connection, you must add the SSL configurations to the `mysql:Options` when creating the `dbClient`.
```

> For SSLMode, You can select one of the modes `mysql:SSL_PREFERRED`, `mysql:SSL_REQUIRED`, `mysql:SSL_VERIFY_CA`, or `mysql:SSL_VERIFY_IDENTITY` according to the requirement.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For the SSL Mode, you can select one of the modes: `mysql:SSL_PREFERRED`, `mysql:SSL_REQUIRED`, `mysql:SSL_VERIFY_CA`, or `mysql:SSL_VERIFY_IDENTITY` according to the requirement.
```

> for key and cert files, you must provide the files in .p12 format.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For the key and cert files, you must provide the files in the `.p12` format.
```

```ballerina
string clientStorePath = "/path/to/keystore.p12";
string turstStorePath = "/path/to/truststore.p12";

mysql:Options mysqlOptions = {
  ssl: {
    mode: mysql:SSL_PREFERRED,
    key: {
        path: clientStorePath,
        password: "password"
    },
    cert: {
        path: turstStorePath,
        password: "password"
    }
  }
};
```
#### Connection Pool Handling

> All database modules share the same connection pooling concept and there are 3 possible scenarios for 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All database modules share the same connection pooling concept and there are three possible scenarios for 
```

> connection pool handling.  For its properties and possible values, see the `sql:ConnectionPool`.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
connection pool handling.  For its properties and possible values, see the `sql:ConnectionPool`.  
```
Should we give the link here?

> 1. Global shareable default connection pool

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Global, shareable, default connection pool
```

    If you do not provide the `poolOptions` field when creating the database client, a globally-shareable pool will be 
    created for your database unless a connection pool matching with the properties you provided already exists. 
    The JDBC module example below shows how the global connection pool is used. 

    ```ballerina
    jdbc:Client|sql:Error dbClient = 
                               new ("jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/testdb", 
                                "root", "root");
    ```

2. Client owned, unsharable connection pool

    If you define the `connectionPool` field inline when creating the database client with the `sql:ConnectionPool` type, 
    an unsharable connection pool will be created. The JDBC module example below shows how the global 
    connection pool is used.

    ```ballerina
    jdbc:Client|sql:Error dbClient = 
                               new (url = "jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/testdb", 
                               connectionPool = { maxOpenConnections: 5 });
    ```

3. Local, shareable connection pool

    If you create a record of type `sql:ConnectionPool` and reuse that in the configuration of multiple clients, 

>     for each  set of clients that connects to the same database instance with the same set of properties, a shared 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    for each set of clients that connects to the same database instance with the same set of properties, a shared 
```

    connection pool will be created. The JDBC module example below shows how the global connection pool is used.

    ```ballerina
    sql:ConnectionPool connPool = {maxOpenConnections: 5};
    
    jdbc:Client|sql:Error dbClient1 =       
                               new (url = "jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/testdb",
                               connectionPool = connPool);
    jdbc:Client|sql:Error dbClient2 = 
                               new (url = "jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/testdb",
                               connectionPool = connPool);
    jdbc:Client|sql:Error dbClient3 = 
                               new (url = "jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/testdb",
                               connectionPool = connPool);
    ```
   

> You can find more details about each property in the [mysql:Client](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/mysql/clients/Client) constructor.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For more details about each property, see the [`mysql:Client`](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/mysql/clients/Client) constructor.
```

The [mysql:Client](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/mysql/clients/Client) references
[sql:Client](https://ballerina.io/learn/api-docs/ballerina/#/sql/abstractObjects/Client) and all the operations
defined by the `sql:Client` will be supported by the `mysql:Client` as well.
 
#### Closing the Client

Once all the database operations are performed, you can close the database client you have created by invoking the `close()`
operation. This will close the corresponding connection pool if it is not shared by any other database clients. 

```ballerina
error? e = dbClient.close();
```

> Or

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
or
```

```ballerina
check dbClient.close();
```

### Database Operations

Once the client is created, database operations can be executed through that client. This module defines the interface 
and common properties that are shared among multiple database clients.  It also supports querying, inserting, deleting, 
updating, and batch updating data.  

#### Creating Tables

This sample creates a table with two columns. One column is of type `int` and the other is of type `varchar`.

> The CREATE statement is executed via the `execute` remote function of the client.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `CREATE` statement is executed via the `execute` remote function of the client.
```

```ballerina

> // Create the ‘Students’ table with the  ‘id’, 'name' and ‘age’ fields.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
// Create the ‘Students’ table with the  ‘id’, 'name', and ‘age’ fields.
```

sql:ExecutionResult ret = check dbClient->execute("CREATE TABLE student(id INT AUTO_INCREMENT, " +
                         "age INT, name VARCHAR(255), PRIMARY KEY (id))");

> //A value of type sql:ExecutionResult is returned for 'ret'. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
//A value of the`sql:ExecutionResult` type is returned for 'ret'. 
```

```

#### Inserting Data

> This sample shows three examples of data insertion by executing an INSERT statement using the `execute` remote function 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This sample shows three examples of data insertion by executing an `INSERT` statement using the `execute` remote function 
```

of the client.

In the first example, the query parameter values are passed directly into the query statement of the `execute` 
remote function.

```ballerina
sql:ExecutionResult ret = check dbClient->execute("INSERT INTO student(age, name) " +
                         "values (23, 'john')");
```

In the second example, the parameter values, which are in local variables are used to parameterize the SQL query in 
the `execute` remote function. This type of a parameterized SQL query can be used with any primitive Ballerina type 
like `string`, `int`, `float`, or `boolean` and in that case, the corresponding SQL type of the parameter is derived 
from the type of the Ballerina variable that is passed in. 

```ballerina
string name = "Anne";
int age = 8;

sql:ParameterizedQuery query = `INSERT INTO student(age, name)
                                values (${age}, ${name})`;
sql:ExecutionResult ret = check dbClient->execute(query);
```

> In the third example, the parameter values are passed as a `sql:TypedValue` to the `execute` remote function. Use the 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the third example, the parameter values are passed as an `sql:TypedValue` to the `execute` remote function. Use the 
```

> corresponding subtype of the `sql:TypedValue` such as `sql:Varchar`, `sql:Char`, `sql:Integer`, etc, when you need to 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
corresponding subtype of the `sql:TypedValue` such as `sql:Varchar`, `sql:Char`, `sql:Integer`, etc. when you need to 
```

provide more details such as the exact SQL type of the parameter.

```ballerina
sql:VarcharValue name = new ("James");
sql:IntegerValue age = new (10);

sql:ParameterizedQuery query = `INSERT INTO student(age, name)
                                values (${age}, ${name})`;
sql:ExecutionResult ret = check dbClient->execute(query);
```

#### Inserting Data With Auto-generated Keys

This example demonstrates inserting data while returning the auto-generated keys. It achieves this by using the 

> `execute` remote function to execute the INSERT statement.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`execute` remote function to execute the `INSERT` statement.
```

```ballerina
int age = 31;
string name = "Kate";

sql:ParameterizedQuery query = `INSERT INTO student(age, name)
                                values (${age}, ${name})`;
sql:ExecutionResultret = check dbClient->execute(query);
//Number of rows affected by the execution of the query.
int? count = ret.affectedRowCount;
//The integer or string generated by the database in response to a query execution.
string|int? generatedKey = ret.lastInsertId;
}
```

#### Querying Data

> This sample shows three examples to demonstrate the different usages of the `query` operation and query the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This sample shows three examples to demonstrate the different usages of the `query` operation to query the
```

database table and obtain the results. 

This example demonstrates querying data from a table in a database. 
First, a type is created to represent the returned result set. Note the mapping of the database column 

> to the returned record's property is case-insensitive (i.e., `ID` column in the result can be mapped to the `id` 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to the returned record's property is case-insensitive (i.e., the `ID` column in the result can be mapped to the `id` 
```

> property in the record). Next, the SELECT query is executed via the `query` remote function of the client by passing that 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
property in the record). Next, the `SELECT` query is executed via the `query` remote function of the client by passing that 
```

result set type. Once the query is executed, each data record can be retrieved by looping the result set. The `stream` 

> returned by the select operation holds a pointer to the actual data in the database and it loads data from the table 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
returned by the `SELECT` operation holds a pointer to the actual data in the database and it loads data from the table 
```

only when it is accessed. This stream can be iterated only once. 

```ballerina
// Define a type to represent the results.
type Student record {
    int id;
    int age;
    string name;
};

// Select the data from the database table. The query parameters are passed 
// directly. Similar to the `execute` examples, parameters can be passed as
// sub types of `sql:TypedValue` as well.
int id = 10;
int age = 12;
sql:ParameterizedQuery query = `SELECT * FROM students
                                WHERE id < ${id} AND age > ${age}`;
stream<Student, sql:Error> resultStream = 
        <stream<Student, sql:Error>> dbClient->query(query, Student);

// Iterating the returned table.
error? e = resultStream.forEach(function(Student student) {

>    //Can perform any operations using 'student' and can access any fields in the returned record of type Student.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   //Can perform any operations using 'student' and can access any fields in the returned record of type `Student`.
```

});
```

Defining the return type is optional and you can query the database without providing the result type. Hence, 
the above example can be modified as follows with an open record type as the return type. The property name in the open record 
type will be the same as how the column is defined in the database. 

```ballerina
// Select the data from the database table. The query parameters are passed 
// directly. Similar to the `execute` examples, parameters can be passed as 
// sub types of `sql:TypedValue` as well.
int id = 10;
int age = 12;
sql:ParameterizedQuery query = `SELECT * FROM students
                                WHERE id < ${id} AND age > ${age}`;
stream<record{}, sql:Error> resultStream = dbClient->query(query);

// Iterating the returned table.
error? e = resultStream.forEach(function(record{} student) {
    //Can perform any operations using 'student' and can access any fields in the returned record.
});
```

There are situations in which you may not want to iterate through the database and in that case, you may decide
to only use the `next()` operation in the result `stream` and retrieve the first record. In such cases, the returned

> result stream will not be closed, and you have to explicitly invoke the `close` operation on the 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
result stream will not be closed and you have to invoke the `close` operation explicitly on the 
```

`sql:Client` to release the connection resources and avoid a connection leak as shown below.

```ballerina
stream<record{}, sql:Error> resultStream = 
            dbClient->query("SELECT count(*) as total FROM students");

record {|record {} value;|}|error? result = resultStream.next();

if result is record {|record {} value;|} {

>     //valid result is returned.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    //A valid result is returned.
```

} else if result is error {
    // An error is returned as the result.
} else {

>     // Student table must be empty.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    // The `Student` table must be empty.
```

}

error? e = resultStream.close();
```

#### Updating Data

> This example demonstrates modifying data by executing an UPDATE statement via the `execute` remote function of 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates modifying data by executing an `UPDATE` statement via the `execute` remote function of 
```

the client.

```ballerina
int age = 23;
sql:ParameterizedQuery query = `UPDATE students SET name = 'John' 
                                WHERE age = ${age}`;
sql:ExecutionResult|sql:Error ret = check dbClient->execute(query);
```

#### Deleting Data

> This example demonstrates deleting data by executing a DELETE statement via the `execute` remote function of 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates deleting data by executing a `DELETE` statement via the `execute` remote function of 
```

the client.

```ballerina
string name = "John";
sql:ParameterizedQuery query = `DELETE from students WHERE name = ${name}`;
sql:ExecutionResult|sql:Error ret = check dbClient->execute(query);
```

#### Batch Updating Data

> This example demonstrates how to insert multiple records with a single INSERT statement that is executed via the 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to insert multiple records with a single `INSERT` statement that is executed via the 
```

`batchExecute` remote function of the client. This is done by creating a `table` with multiple records and 
parameterized SQL query as same as the  above `execute` operations.

```ballerina
// Create the table with the records that need to be inserted.
var data = [
  { name: "John", age: 25  },
  { name: "Peter", age: 24 },
  { name: "jane", age: 22 }
];

// Do the batch update by passing the batches.
sql:ParameterizedQuery[] batch = from var row in data
                                 select `INSERT INTO students ('name', 'age')
                                 VALUES (${row.name}, ${row.age})`;
sql:ExecutionResult[] ret = check dbClient->batchExecute(batch);
```

#### Execute SQL Stored Procedures

> This example demonstrates how to execute a stored procedure with a single INSERT statement that is executed via the 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to execute a stored procedure with a single `INSERT` statement that is executed via the 
```

`call` remote function of the client.

```ballerina
int uid = 10;
sql:IntegerOutParameter insertId = new;

sql:ProcedureCallResult|sql:Error ret = dbClient->call(`call InsertPerson(${uid}, ${insertId})`);
if ret is error {
    //An error returned
} else {
    stream<record{}, sql:Error>? resultStr = ret.queryResult;
    if resultStr is stream<record{}, sql:Error> {
        sql:Error? e = resultStr.forEach(function(record{} result) {
        //can perform operations using 'result'.
      });
    }
    check ret.close();
}
```

> Note that you have to explicitly invoke the close operation on the `sql:ProcedureCallResult` to release the connection resources and avoid a connection leak as shown above.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note that you have to invoke the close operation on the `sql:ProcedureCallResult` explicitly to release the connection resources and avoid a connection leak as shown above.
```

> >**Note:** The default thread pool size used in Ballerina is the number of processors available * 2. You can configure

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
>**Note:** The default thread pool size used in Ballerina is the number of processors available * 
2. You can configure
```
Make this way of adding the note consistent in other PRs of `sql` and `java.jdbc` modules as well.

Author: thread pool size is mentioned here [the number of processors available * 2]
